All right.
Welcome back.
We're going to continue off right where we left off last time and first thing we need to do is make
sure that we set our flask application variable correctly.
Since I renamed my file to be models not pie I'm going to set a flask app equal to models of Pi and
this is something you're always going to have to do.
In case you play around the name of your actual application file.
So I will set that.
Remember if you're on a Mac OS or Linux you use export instead of set and you shouldn't see anything
output from that.
So here we see flasks at next.
I'm going to say flask D-B in it.
So I'm going to initiate my actual database.
And if you've done that they should be able to expand this and see the migrations folder.
So those migrations fall there and then we have these options right here.
So the next thing I need to do is say flask and then I'm going to actually set my migrations and the
way we do that is by typing Flast DBI migrate and then optimally you can add a message flag.
So dash em and I would recommend that you always do this.
So say initial migration enter.
That's going to set the migration file and then to actually make sure everything gets run you say flask.
The upgrade enter and now we have everything connected.
So now we're ready to go.
What I'm going to do is in the same folder that models that pi is in.
So right now I have it all located under flask examples.
I'm going to create a new file and I'm just going to call it basic dot pi and you really can call us
whatever you want.
So I have here now my file basic thought PI and this is a file where I'm going to create entries into
the tables and then I'm actually going to print out the results.
So again you can call this file pretty much whatever you want.
So let's start off by saying from models.
Imports then wanted to import D-B.
I'm going to import my puppy model the owner model and the toy model.
So I always start off by creating loops creating two puppies.
So it's great to put the objects will say rufous is a puppy objects where we say puppy area or we need
to pass and the puppy name.
So say Rufus if you take a look back at the models were essentially just related to the IT method right
now.
So puppy just needs a name to start off with and then later on we can add owners to the puppies.
So say Rufus is a puppy and let's make Fido a puppy as well.
We say puppy.
And then we pass on the name Fido next.
I'm going to add puppies to the database.
So the way we do that we'll say ad puppies.
To D-B.
Remember we can grab that database and then create a session.
And if I have a list of objects I want to pass I can say at all in this case and want to add rufous
and phyto they'll say D-B session and I'm going to commit those changes.
So once those changes have been saved I'm going to check on this.
So we'll check it by saying Prince will say puppy queery all.
And that's going to allow us to return all the puppies in the database.
So remember as I mentioned previously we're actually creating scripts that add new entries into our
database.
If you run the script multiple times you may get errors because you may be adding duplicates or trying
to delete something that doesn't exist.
So keep that in mind.
I write this script in a way that's meant to be only run once I'm going to collapse my left hand tab
here and continue on.
So here I should see rufous and phyto and remember the puppies the way they're printed out and represented
it should be something like Hey puppy name is Rufus and has no idea puppy name is Fido and has no owner
yet.
So that's what's going to be printed out when you check on all those puppies.
So now I'm willing to just grab Rufus from the database.
So I'll say Rufus is now equal to puppy queery so we can actually Graham are basically treating this
as an Aurum and then I use the filter underscore by Methot off of this or the name is equal to.
And I will say Rufus here.
And what happens is we actually get back a list of items so one way to do this is to say first.
So give me back the first puppy whose name is Rufus.
And in this case it should just be this Rufus.
If you have multiple puppies whose name you think is Rufus The other alternative is to say all.
And I'll return a list of all the puppies whose name is Rufus and if he's just one of the first item
off of that then you could do something like indexing to zero.
So right now I'm just going to say give me that first puppy that I'm going to create an owner for Rufus.
So let's create an owner object.
I will say Jose variable is an owner and the owner has the name Jose.
And then remember I just grabbed Rufus and Rufus is a puppy inside the database.
It was the first puppy whose name was Rufus inside that database.
And if we take a look back at Rufus who is a puppy Rufus object that has an ID attribute.
And if I take a look at the owners when I create an owner and is supply the name of the owner and then
also the puppy ID.
So then that means I need to grab Rufus's ID or some other puppies ID.
So since I already have Rufus as an object I'm going say that this owner's Jose and the puppy ID is
going to be rufous ID.
So that's the id attribute off Rufus right here.
Who's the first puppy objects returned.
When I filtered by name is equal to Rufus which is this puppy that I created a peer.
So I just created owner Jose with a rufous Id not going to give some toys to Rufus So let's give Rufus
some toys.
Now this is a one to many relationships we can give multiple toys to Rufus so create two toys will say
toy one and let's take a look at the method for toy.
If we go back to models of Pi scroll up toys they have an item name and a puppy ID for who they belong
to.
So the first toy.
Let's just say it's a chew toy.
And we'll also have it belong to Rufus.
Say Rufus thought Id And I'll create another toy object toy too and we'll say this is a toy I'll say
it's a ball and it's also going to belong to Rufus connected by Rufus's ID.
OK.
So once we have all that when you commit those changes.
So you actually commit the owners and these two toys to our database and the way we're going to do that
is just by simply saying D-B session and then I'm going to add all and we pass and that list will say
add Jose add toy one and add toy to.
Notice how flexible this add all method is.
I'm passing in different object types but the session is not going to complain because it understands
that these particular objects relate to particular tables because they inherit from db that model.
So a lot of that logic is taken care of for you already on the backend which is why we're able just
to say D-B session and all of these items to my tables.
All right.
Once we've done that we want to commit those changes.
Well say D-B session commit and now we're going to grab rufous again.
So let's grab Rufus after those admissions.
So I'll say rufous again and say Rufus is equal to puppy do a query and say filter by where the name
is equal to Rufus.
Let's make sure that's a stream Rufus and then grabbed the first puppy that happens to be true.
And then print outs Rufus
so we should expect is when you print out rufous here Rufus now has an owner attached to it Jose.
So the first time that I print rufous in fact I'm going to rafter call him or print rufous again so
I print both puppies I should see Rufus and phyto with no owners.
Then I grab Rufus already from the database and I print him again by himself.
So I should see Rufus hasna owner.
I create the owner object create the two toys.
Commit them and add them to the database.
And then when I read grab Rufus from the database and I print them out then I should see from up here
that self-taught is true meaning I should see puppy name as Rufus and owner is Jose.
So that's what I would expect on this print statement on 9:31.
And recall that these puppies if you go back to models they also have a report toys method.
So I'm going to copy that.
And then I should see here are my toys and I should see a shoe tall Go chew toy and a ball.
There you go.
So we're going to say Prince Rufus and we'll say report toys.
So let's take a look at that report toys and I think right now is just printing it.
Let's see if that works we may need to actually just make that into a return but that will probably
work great.
There let's say this and see if we have any issues running it say Python basic thought pi.
So I should see a bunch of print statements enter here.
There we go.
So it says here puppy name is rufous and has no owner yet puppy name is Fido and has no owner yet.
Then puppy name is rufous has no owner yet.
Then puppy names Rufus owners Jose here at my toys chew toy and ball and at the end they got none because
I'm kind of just printing out the results of this.
I think this should've just been rufous that report toys because inside a model's section are returning
anything it's already pretty enough for you.
So we didn't need to actually say none there or we didn't need a print.
All right.
So that's the very basics of actually having the relationship.
So the main things and notice here is we're able to now connect this puppy to a list of toys.
So that's a one to many relationship and we're also able to connect an owner objects.
And that's a one to one leader and we'll discuss more complex relationships.
And if you're interested in them right now you can always check out the sequel alchemy code or documentation
to get those sort of examples there.
And as a quick reminder you can always delete things from the database by using D-B that session that
delete and then deleting the puppy from it.
OK so we've discussed already quite a lot of detail.
How do create models now what we need to do is start talking about how we actually connect these models
to the views because we haven't actually seen this in regards to a Web site.
So now that we understand everything is going off the models the databases school light and migrations.
Let's take all of that knowledge and connect it to what we already understand about serving templates.
That way we can have pretty much our full functioning Web site where we're able to accept the form of
input and then use these sort of at all and commit commands inside of our flask application to add a
user form data into a database and then we can also read it and return it back on another page.
So we're finally in the very next lecture actually going to start working on the most functional web
site we've done so far.
I'm really excited for that next step.
It's really a huge leap forward in your abilities.
So we'll see you in the next lecture where we begin to discuss databases in views either.